hey everyone another week another Chung
you Laszlo Montgomery here Chinese
sayings podcast for a second time in a
row I might add we're back in the final
years of the Qin Dynasty today we look
at an old saying that many of us with
lofty goals and great ambitions might be
able to relate to home who'd returned
this is one of my faves and a useful one
to boot but before we get into the
interesting backstory for home hold your
jerk let's put these four characters on
the dissecting table and get to know
their individual meanings and see if we
can figure out what these four syllables
all add up to sometimes you can guess
the meaning at once but most of the time
if you don't know the story you won't be
able to decipher the meaning home hold
your jerk a home that's a swan or a
goose who also means a swan in fact just
combine the two characters into home
rule and this is the word for a swan it
also has another meaning that comes from
the story I'm about to tell and there
are other words for swans
too home who being one of them first
tone once again is a possessive particle
that sort of acts as the Chinese version
of our English apostrophe and it has
other meanings besides that won't get
into them now and the last character
jerk fourth tone means will or
aspirations ambitions four characters
combined a swans ambitions hmm that
could be anything
anyways let's see where home Hoosier
jerk came from as I said this story came
from the excruciating last years of the
Qin Dynasty Qin Shihuang gone all too
soon
though many would beg to argue the whole
yin family of the Qin Emperor going back
so many hundreds of years as soon as
they hit the big time and conquered all
the remaining warring States and unified
China they lasted barely a decade and it
was over last episode we discussed paw
pooch and Joe Chung use bold order to
smash the pots and burn the boats and
take the fight to the Qin army or bust
today's story precedes all of that
- hun contention backstory today we look
at the thoughts of this young uprising
and the story of Chung Chung and his
number two guy who Gwang almost any
history book will tell you that
thoughtless young uprising was important
because that was the first peasant
rebellion that erupted following the
death of Qin Shi Huang and 210 BCE
following the thoughts of Shang uprising
others felt embolden enough to rise up
and suddenly there were many rebellions
big and small happening everywhere in
the Qin Empire and as I said it was all
over and 202 BCE with lil bung founding
the Han Dynasty that's a Zhang was just
south of su Chou not the famous su Jo of
Jiangsu
the lesser-known su Chou of Anhui
province Chen Sheng and Wu Guang were a
couple of Hicks from the farmlands of
hernán who were now minor officers in
the Qin army Chung Chung was leading his
battalion to an area northwest of
Beijing called Mian County if they ever
build an eighth or ninth Ring Road
that'll pass right through there Chung
Chung along the way and counter these
logistical problems and his troops got
stuck in the mud and their March fell
way behind schedule anyways Chang Shan
knew he wasn't gonna make it to the fort
on time and the penalty for that was
death remember this is the Qin Dynasty
legalism no messing around if you broke
the rules you paid for it no parole or
plea bargaining rather than face certain
death by showing up late Chung Chung
decided to rebel instead and not only
did his troops join in and this wasn't a
whole army was less than a thousand men
but so great was the secret hatred of
the Qin Dynasty upon hearing of Chung
Chung uprising many others spontaneously
rose up - and they joined his rebel army
you see many many years before Chung
Chung and the Dodson's young uprising
Chung Chung was just another qin dynasty
farmer pulling a plow with his oxen in
the fields of Hoonah
even though it was just a mere peasant
of no consequence that didn't mean he
was complacent with his lot in life
after a full day of hard work in the
fields dreaming away about his future
Chun Chun used to tell his pals
hey if any of us ever makes it to the
big time if one of us ever gets rich or
attains power whoever that is must come
back and spread the good fortune to the
others and his friends would all just
laugh at him and tell him he was born a
peasant and he died a peasant and don't
have such lofty goals and ambition this
was the countryside and there was
nothing else beyond their village and
certainly not beyond their County that
was of any concern to them well no less
a man in Simha Shen himself in the Shoji
in his masterwork the records of the
grand historian he retold this story for
posterity and mentioned in the chapter
Chun Chun Sharia that when Chun plowed
his fields and listened to the
discouragement of his friends he set the
famous words yen shift under home who'd
Richard sigh how can a mere Finch
understand the great ambitions of a swan
so Chung Chung expressed his great
ambitions this way and scoffed at his
fellow villagers whose hopes and dreams
didn't go beyond the walls of their
small Hunan village well July 209 BCE
Kim Chun qiangs
big chance he was the man with the home
holder jerk the ambitions of a swan he
was thrust upon the national stage well
his chance came and it went this revolt
that began in the onwe countryside
lasted for six months before it was put
down by the qin general Jung Han he was
the same guy from last episode if you
recall his unbeatable army ended up
getting beaten by his young u Chun Chun
wasn't the right kind of leader as soon
as he got a whiff of success it all went
to his head and before you knew it he
was declaring himself a king and took
his eye off the ball
Zhang Hans forces snuffed this that's a
young uprising out by the end of the air
and that was that home who a swan jerk
ambition or will home who charger the
ambitions of a swan
you have great ambitions so a home who
is not only a swan it's also a word that
thanks to this story from the sergey
describes someone who wants to go out
into the world and do something with
their life so that is the absolute
skinny on the well-known and well-worn
chun you home hold your jerk i do hope
you enjoyed that and home who those are
two very nice-looking chinese characters
next time you're thinking about your
next tattoo and like to wear your
ambition on your sleeve no pun intended
thanks for listening everyone this has
been my greatest pleasure I'll see you
next time I hope I promise to go dig up
another good one for you this is as
always La Silla Montgomery signing off
from Los Angeles California
it's sunny and beautiful here you should
come visit I look forward to seeing you
all next time for another useful and
thought-provoking Chinese saying here at
the podcast that will stays true to its
name the Chinese sayings podcast you
know we had to pay a marketing
consultant seventy-five thousand dollars
to come up with that name for us but it
was perfect see you next time
you